# Classification of tumour data and metastasis

CVaPR Project - Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. Classification of tumour data.

## Summary

For this project I decided to create a CNN - Convolutional Neural Network. The trained classifier will be used to determine whether a patient has "metastasis" (class 0) or "no metastasis" (class 1) based on 105 features.

The CNN model is built based on the output of hyperparameter optimisation scripts using the *optuna* library.
In addition, 3 different feature selection methods are used to **TRY** to improve the CNN performance.
This CNN model is compared with simple classifiers such as *SVM* or *KNN*, etc.
Later, we tried the feature selection using the ranking method for simple classifiers to see if the results could be improved.

## File structure overview

#### `/root/` of the project

- The `cvapr_project_instructions.txt` file contains the rough notes on the details of this project (in Polish).

- The `corrections_needed.png` file contains the list of things that needed to be corrected before the final report was submitted (in Polish).

- The `corrections_needed_2.png` file contains another thing that needed to be corrected before the final report was submitted (in Polish).

#### `./src/` directory

- One of two main Jupyter Notebooks: `cnn_classification.ipynb` contains the optimized CNN model (based on the hyperparameter optimisation scripts),

- Second main notebook is `simple_classifier_knn_svm_bayes.ipynb`, which contains simple classifiers such as: "*RandomForest*", "*DecisionTree*", "*SVM*", "*KNN*", "*NeuralNet*" and "*NaiveBayes*".

- As an experiment, I also tried to create a simple DNN - Dense Neural Network, which can be found in the Notebook called `dense_network_classification.ipynb`.

- The `xtrain_feature_selection/` subdirectory contains script used to test different feature selection methods on `x_train FEATURES (after splitting)`,

  - `ranking_method.ipynb` - assess the impact of individual features on a model’s performance. In practice, they help select an optimal set of features for machine learning models,
  - `wrapper_method.ipynb` - choose the best features by testing different combinations and keeping those that enhance model performance,
  - `embedded_method.ipynb` - feature selection process as part of the model training. Select features during the model learning process, specific to given learning algorithms that perform feature selection while training, such as Lasso,
  - `simple_classifier_ranking_method.ipynb` - ranking method applied to simple classifiers.

- The `all_feature_selection/` subdirectory contains script used to test different feature selection methods on `ALL FEATURES (before splitting)`,

- The `optimizers/` subdirectory contains script used to optimize hyperparameters with "*optuna*" library.
  - `optimalization_test.ipynb` - the test script using one of the models generated by optimizers,
  - `hiperparametr_optymalization.ipynb` - returns the parameters which can be used to train the optimal network and an image (`./models/optimizers/hyperparam_model.png`),
  - `learning_optimalization.ipynb` - returns the optimal model architecture and parameters and an image (`./models/optimizers/learning_model.png`).

#### `./models/` directory

- The trained models are stored in the `./models/` directory. Here we can find CNN and DNN models.
- The `xtrain_feature_selection/` subdirectory contains models with different method of selecting features from `x_train FEATURES (after splitting)`,
- The `all_feature_selection/` subdirectory contains models with different method of selecting features from `ALL FEATURES (before splitting)`,
- The `optimizers/` subdirectory contains optimized models generated with "optuna" library.

#### `./data/` directory

- Data used to train the model is located in this folder:

  - `labels_features.csv` was the only file used, and it contains both features and labels,
  - `features.csv` contains only features,
  - `labels.csv` contains only labels,
  - `clinical_radiomics_imported_from_tsv.xlsx` is the original spreadsheet used to generate CSV files,

  - `./aditional_resources/` folder contains my personal resources, where I wrote the code and comments used to study machine learning (notebook `7. Deep Learning for Computer Vision.ipynb`), as well as various scripts backup.
